The truth is I am not a writer. However, I wanted to write this text for a number of reasons, the first and foremost of which is that people are inherently good. Repeat that in your mind a few times. We're born good. We care, we love, we share. We're also of course not perfect.

The truth is I have no idea how this will turn out, even what form it will ultimately take (e.g. book, manuscript, etc)

---

How dangerous is the world?

I have two opposing (and essentially conflicting views) on this obviously highly subjective question. Firstly, if I answered it based on the news I'd actively consumed up until about 2010 I would have answered something to the effect that, yes, the world a very unstable and dangerous place. To some degree, wherever one resides, one must be dilligent and careful (and to some degree fearful) at all times.

On the other hand, if I answered it based on both my travels around the world, and the people I've met, the places I've been, and proactive consumption of less mainstream sources (sources whom arguably have less of an interest in "selling" me news) I would have a very different answer. And that is that the world isn't actually particularly dangerous at all. I would even go one step further in so much that, while obviously not "perfect" (a topic that we'll explore shortly), it's actually very safe and wonderful.

So how does one resolve these essentially diametrically opposed views? Well that's the exploration and theme of this text. Within it I explore an array of concepts including people's perception of "bad guys", irrational fear, interest alignment between the media and its consumers, governments, and how afraid should we actually be?

Have I lived a blessed life? Well the fact I'm not hungry, sick, have a residence, and am typing this it on a modern laptop computer by some standard implies that I have. However, while that is an immutable factor one must consider when exploring this topic, to a degree, it's not the point (or at least I'll do what I can to proactively to remove this bias). I would argue that the real point is that we're increasingly entering into a world where the perception of fear and the actual reality of it are going apart. People are "shocked", "sicked", etc by events that are ... (hyped, not likely to occur). Worse still, mainstream media outlets, governments, and corporations (all of whom have vested interested in doing so) for a variety of reasons construct narratives that only serves to increase this.

Moreover an over amplified collective irrational fear drives us apart from one another, drains our collective empathy quotiatant, and most significantly of all decreases our motivation and desire to act. In other words it strips us of our humanity.

There's of course big caveats throughout history, there is little doubt that horrific events have occured (and in certain parts of the world are likely actively occuring at the very moment you read this). Of course these can't be overlooked, and people caught up in these situations need all the assistance we can collectively provide. However, I would also argue that these situations are incredibly isolated and significantly rarer than the average human "lens" on the planet would percieve. In addition, by striping away hyperbolic fear, our collective compassion goes up and ... (something on day-to-day fear..."in so much that petty theft and violence does occasionally occur, typically conducted by people whom are for whatever reason, in ways we probably cannot understand")

<more on the themes to be explored>

I also end with an exploration of frameworks we can adopt on both a personal level, and at a "inter" country diplomatic level, to begin our collective journey towards ...

Tribes